docs/applications/flood.mdx, before:

---
id: flood
title: Flood
sidebar_label: Flood
---

Flood is a monitoring service for rTorrent built in NodeJS

## Installation

Installing Flood is easy. Simply open an SSH prompt to your server and issue the command:

```bash main
sudo box install flood
```

This command will install and compile flood for all the users on your server

## Connecting to rtorrent

Use the socket connection and set your socket to your adaptiation of this value `/var/run/YOURUSERNAME/.rtorrent.sock`.

Please let us know in Discord if this didn't work as we have not written these docs with an install of flood at hand.

## Connecting to Deluge

You will need to use the Daemon port from WebUI > Preferences > Daemon and note down the Daemon port number or using SSH run this to print your Daemon port: `cat /home/$USERNAME/.config/deluge/core.conf | grep daemon_port`, Once obtained Host is to be `127.0.0.1` and port is to be your Daemon port number you found earlier. Username and Password should be the ones you use for Swizzin.

## Connecting to qBittorrent

You will need to use the WebUI port obtained from Settings > Web UI > Port, then set the URL to `127.0.0.1:PORT` replacing PORT with your port number from the settings.

## Connecting to Transmission

You will need to use the Daemon port obtained from running `grep rpc-port /home/$USERNAME/.config/transmission-daemon/settings.json`, the URL is to be `127.0.0.1:PORT/transmission/rpc`, Username and Password should be the ones you use for Swizzin.

import MissingDocs from '../snippets/missingdocs.md';

<MissingDocs />

Commit message:

Added Username + Password to qBittorrent part

docs/applications/flood.mdx, after:

---
id: flood
title: Flood
sidebar_label: Flood
---

Flood is a monitoring service for rTorrent built in NodeJS

## Installation

Installing Flood is easy. Simply open an SSH prompt to your server and issue the command:

```bash main
sudo box install flood
```

This command will install and compile flood for all the users on your server

## Connecting to rtorrent

Use the socket connection and set your socket to your adaptiation of this value `/var/run/YOURUSERNAME/.rtorrent.sock`.

Please let us know in Discord if this didn't work as we have not written these docs with an install of flood at hand.

## Connecting to Deluge

You will need to use the Daemon port from WebUI > Preferences > Daemon and note down the Daemon port number or using SSH run this to print your Daemon port: `cat /home/$USERNAME/.config/deluge/core.conf | grep daemon_port`, Once obtained Host is to be `127.0.0.1` and port is to be your Daemon port number you found earlier. Username and Password should be the ones you use for Swizzin.

## Connecting to qBittorrent

You will need to use the WebUI port obtained from Settings > Web UI > Port, then set the URL to `127.0.0.1:PORT` replacing PORT with your port number from the settings. Username and Password should be the ones you use for Swizzin.

## Connecting to Transmission

You will need to use the Daemon port obtained from running `grep rpc-port /home/$USERNAME/.config/transmission-daemon/settings.json`, the URL is to be `127.0.0.1:PORT/transmission/rpc`, Username and Password should be the ones you use for Swizzin.

import MissingDocs from '../snippets/missingdocs.md';

<MissingDocs />
